---
name: Lars Erik Holmquist
category: [academic_staff]
interests: >-
  Professor of Innovation. Interests: Ubiquitous computing; design driven innovation process; location-based services; interactive television and augmented reality
image: /exported-wp-dirs/i1.wp.com/northlab.uk/wp-content/uploads/sites/15/2019/03/LarsHolmquist13c8.jpg
department: Design
contact: lars.holmquist@northumbria.ac.uk
webpage: https://www.northumbria.ac.uk/about-us/our-staff/h/lars-erik-holmquist/
---
Lars Erik Holmquist is Professor of Innovation at Northumbria University, Department of Design.

He is an internationally leading researcher in human computer interaction, interaction design and ubiquitous computing. He has published over 100 articles in fields such as HCI, design methods, mobile applications and ubicomp, which have been cited more than 3500 times. His work has been presented at major scientific conferences including CHI, SIGGRAPH, UIST, UbiComp, Mobile HCI, InfoVis and ECSCW. His first book, Grounded Innovation: Strategies for Creating Digital Products, was published by Morgan Kaufman in 2012, and provides a practical guide to the design-driven innovation process, with many examples drawn from his own research and elsewhere. He was most recently a Guest Researcher at Tokyo University, where he is worked on his second book. Before this, he was a Principal Scientist at Yahoo Labs in Sunnyvale, CA, where he did research in areas such as location-based services, interactive television and augmented reality. Other appointments have included Full Professor (and later Guest Professor) at Södertörn University, Lab Leader at the Swedish Institute of Computer Science, and Co-Founder and Research Leader of the Mobile Life VINN Excellence Research Centre in Sweden. He has secured funding for and led a number of major research projects, from agencies including the Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research, The Swedish Agency for Innovation Systems, as well as several large European Union projects and two collaborative grants with Stanford University from the Wallenberg Global Learning Network. He has served on many technical program committees, including UbiComp, CHI, UIST, NordiCHI, SIGGRAPH, SIGGRAPH Asia and Mobile HCI, founded and chaired the SIGGRAPH Mobile program, and is an associate editor for journals in personal technologies and robotics. He has supervised two Ph.D. students to completion, co-supervised another five, and served on Ph.D. thesis committees in Sweden and Denmark. In 2005, he was awarded an Individual Grant for the Advancement of Young Research Leaders (INGVAR) from the Foundation for Strategic Research, one of the most prestigious personal grants for researchers in Sweden. He is interested in international culture and music, and has completed one year of full-time studies in Japanese in Tokyo. 

