---
date_from: 2021-05-19
time_and_place: 12-1pm UK time, Online Seminar via Zoom
title: "Book Launch - Digitally Augmenting Traditional Craft Practices for Social Justice: The Partnership Quilt"
speakers:
  - name: Dr Angelika Strohmayer
    affiliation: Northumbria University
  - name: Laura McIntrye
    affiliation: Changing Lives
category: Upcoming Talks
---

This book weaves together disparate worlds of crafting, social justice, and digital technologies around The Partnership Quilt. It crafts a manifesto for meaningful action and design processes in charitable organizations through participatory sewing and its digital augmentation. The book charts a history of how sewing has been used to voice concerns of oppression, and how digital technologies can be embedded into textiles to tell stories more powerfully. It explores the relationship between quilting and research, looking beyond the seams of The Partnership Quilt to shed light on the importance of invisible work behind such participatory, justice-oriented design projects. It concludes with a discussion of the impacts and potential future avenues for research on digitally quilting social justice.

This book launch will mark the occasion of the publication of Dr Angelika Strohmayer’s first book, published by Palgrave Macmillan. In the session, you will hear about two perspectives of the book: one from the author and the other from a manager at the organisation with him she collaborated on the project described and analysed within it. There will be two short talks in the session before the floor is opened for questions and discussion. First, Strohmayer will present an overview of the theories and practices used in the book, highlighting the academic contributions. Second, McIntyre will present a reflection of the practical impacts this project has had on Changing Lives - the ways in which it has shaper her own understanding of service delivery as well as how it impacted on service delivery and development more widely.

**Dr Angelika Strohmayer** is a lecturer and co-director of the newly established Design Feminisms Research Group at Northumbria University’s School of Design. Her collaborative in-the-world work sits at the intersection of technologies, craft, social justice, and feminisms - contributing to theoretical conversations through applied research methods. She is dedicated to the inclusion of under- and mis-represented people in research, design, and academia, and proactively works towards equity, diversity, and inclusion. Some of this is shown through her work as a founding member of fempower.tech, an international technology research collective, and her co-editing of the ‘Meaningful Design Processes’ Forum in the ACM Interactions Magazine. In all that she does, Angelika tries to work across boundaries, bringing together disparate groups to engage in endeavours that support personal wellbeing, counteracting community traumas, and engaging in public advocacy to move towards more socially just worlds.

**Laura McIntyre** is a leader in the voluntary sector, in her role as Head of Services for Women and Children for Changing Lives, a national charity with roots in the North East. Laura has set up and developed a range of innovative services for women across the North and Midlands, including developing peer research methodology which have contributed to policy recommendations and policy change at a local and national level. She has set up women’s centres, both building-based and virtually, and has developed trauma responsive models of care for Changing Lives. Laura is a Winston Churchill Fellow of 2011, and has specialist expertise supporting women who sell and exchange sex, and women who are targeted and groomed for sexual exploitation.

<pre class="p1">Join Zoom Meeting (Book Launch - Digitally Augmenting Traditional Craft Practices for Social Justice: The Partnership Quilt)
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81722562020?pwd=dzgraVpMeEtEMVJPa2hsVmF1WEdtQT09
Meeting ID: 817 2256 2020
Passcode: 383781</pre>
